---
title: Terminology
summary: Description of DataSpace Kit specific terms.
authors:
    - Patrick Lamplmair
---

# Terminology

There are some specific terms associated with the Tributech DataSpace Kit. If you want to get started you should know the following terms:

## DataSpace Kit

The **Tributech DataSpace Kit** is a containerized software-tool-kit to create ecosystems for trusted data sharing between businesses and their systems, platforms or clouds. It consists of the three modules DataSpace Node, DataSpace Agent and DataSpace Coordinator.

## DataSpace Node

A **DataSpace Node** is acting as a gateway/broker that is required to participate in a DataSpace Ecosystem. It contains all necessary services for the data exchange and data verification capabilities with other nodes inside a DataSpace.

## DataSpace Agent

The **DataSpace Agent** is a software agent (with optional support for hardware-based key storages) to provide cross-system data security for any type of device/source like e.g. sensors, IoT-devices, IoT-gateways, SCADA-systems, PPS-systems, ERP-systems and more. A scalable process for generating cryptographic proofs and a secure connection to the trust layer guarantees the raw data’s authenticity and integrity for an entire ecosystem of DataSpace Nodes.

## DataSpace Coordinator

The **DataSpace Coordinator** contains the metadata storage and the public key infrastructure that is required for setting up an ecosystem of DataSpace Nodes. The DataSpace Coordinator is responsible for: storing the metadata of published datasets, managing public keys, managing identities, the inclusion of new nodes and issuing certificates.

>**Important Note:** A DataSpace Coordinator is not on the route of the traffic of for data exchange and even a man-in-the-middle-attack would fail because >the coordinator has no private-key material of DataSpace Nodes or Agents.

## DataSpace Ecosystem or Network

A **DataSpace Ecosystem or Network** consists of a single DataSpace Coordinator and associated DataSpace Nodes that are participating in this ecosystem. 

An ecosystem can represent, for example, a value chain were customers, suppliers and manufacturers use the DataSpace Kit in order to exchange and verify different kinds of data streams to optimize their supply chain processes.

## Trust Layer

Each DataSpace Ecosystem contains a **Trust Layer** for storing hashes and signatures that are generated by DataSpace Agents to provide the data verification capabilities for all stakeholders inside an ecosystem. Each DataSpace Node contains an instance of the trust layer and each Node contains the required services for the supported data verification capabilities.

The trust layer's integrated distributed ledger technology is <a href="https://www.bigchaindb.com/" target="_blank">BigchainDB</a> with the Byzantine Fault-Tolerant consensus mechanism of the <a href="https://tendermint.com/" target="_blank">tendermint protocol</a>.

The integrated trust layer of the DataSpace Kit provides an end-to-end solution for verifying data streams - starting from the generation of cryptographic proofs at the data source via DataSpace Agents - to the verification of the authenticity and integrity of consumed data streams via the DataSpace Node of a data consumer.
